Update gcp Cloud Shell tutorial (#10)
hashicorp/terraform-getting-started-gcp-cloud-shell: tutorial/cloudshell_tutorial.md

## Introduction

### About this Tutorial

> This tutorial will help you learn the fundamentals of Terraform and how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial will introduce the fundamentals of Terraform and how
```

to provision infrastructure on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

> In these tutorials, you will use Terraform to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will use Terraform to
```

> provision, update, and destroy a simple set of infrastructure using the sample

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provision, update, and destroy infrastructure using the sample
```

configuration provided. The sample configuration provisions a network and a
Linux virtual machine. You will also learn about remote backends, input and
output variables, and how to configure resource dependencies. These are the

> building blocks for more complex configurations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
building blocks for more complex Terraform configurations.
```

**Warning:** While everything provisioned in this tutorial should fall within
  GCP's free tier, if you provision resources outside of the free tier, you may
  be charged. We are not responsible for any charges you may incur.

### Google Cloud Shell

This tutorial uses Google Cloud Shell to give you an environment preconfigured
with Terraform. You can execute commands at the command prompt, and edit the
files in the editor window.

If you prefer to follow this tutorial on your local machine, you can follow
the [Google Cloud collection on

> learn.hashicorp.com](https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/gcp-get-started).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the [Google Cloud collection on
HashiCorp Learn](https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/gcp-get-started).
```

## Prerequisites

### Terraform

Terraform is already installed in your Cloud Shell environment. You can verify

> this with the `terraform version`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this by running `terraform version`.
```

```bash
terraform version
```

> **Note:** When you run the previous command, Terraform may print a warning that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** When you run `terraform version`, Terraform may print a warning that
```

  there is a newer version of Terraform available. This tutorial has been tested
  with the version of Terraform installed in your Cloud Shell environment, so
  you can continue to use it for the rest of the tutorial.

### Create a GCP Project

In addition to a GCP account, you will need to use a **GCP Project** to follow
this guide.

In order to keep the resources you will create in this tutorial separate from
your other resources, we recommend that you create a new project to use

> throughout the tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To keep the resources you create in this tutorial separate from
your other resources, create a new project to use
throughout the tutorial.
```

After you have created the project, select it below.

<walkthrough-project-billing-setup></walkthrough-project-billing-setup>

Selecting the project here will set the project ID in future steps, so 
select a project before moving on!

#### Authentication

When you are using Google Cloud Shell, the shell is already configured with

> access to your GCP credentials, so you will not need to do anything extra to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
access to your GCP credentials, so you will not need to do anything to
```

authenticate and start provisioning resources. When using Terraform from another
environment, you will need to configure authentication. You can read about
credentials in the [GCP provider
documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/provider_reference#authentication).

> ## Build Infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Build infrastructure
```

The set of files used to describe infrastructure in Terraform is known as a
Terraform _configuration_. Next, you will write your first configuration to create a network.

Each Terraform configuration must be in its own working directory. Your Cloud
Shell environment includes a directory called `tutorial` that will store the
configuration you will use for this tutorial.

Terraform loads all files ending in `.tf` or `.tf.json` in the working
directory.

> In the `tutorial` directory you will find a file named <walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="terraform-getting-started-gcp-cloud-shell/tutorial/main.tf">main.tf</walkthrough-editor-open-file>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `tutorial` directory contains a file named <walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="terraform-getting-started-gcp-cloud-shell/tutorial/main.tf">main.tf</walkthrough-editor-open-file>.
```

Open `main.tf` in the Cloud Shell editor, and paste in the configuration below.

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    google = {
      source  = "hashicorp/google"
      version = "3.73.0"
    }
  }

  required_version = ">= 0.15.0"
}

provider "google" {
  project = "{{project-id}}"
  region  = "us-central1"
  zone    = "us-central1-c"
}

module "project_services" {
  source  = "terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services"
  version = "3.3.0"

  project_id = "{{project-id}}"

  activate_apis = [
    "compute.googleapis.com",
    "oslogin.googleapis.com"
  ]

  disable_services_on_destroy = false
  disable_dependent_services  = false
}
```

This is a complete configuration that Terraform can apply. In the following
sections you will review each block of the configuration in more detail.

Cloud Shell automatically sets the `project_id` attribute to the one you selected
in the previous step. You can review a list of your projects in the [cloud
resource manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager)

### Terraform Block

The `terraform {}` block contains Terraform settings, including the required

> providers Terraform will use to provision your infrastructure. For each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `terraform {}` block contains Terraform settings, including the
providers needed to provision your infrastructure. For each
```

## Introduction

### About this Tutorial

> This tutorial will help you quickly learn the fundamentals of Terraform and how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This tutorial will help you learn the fundamentals of Terraform and how
```

to provision infrastructure on Google Cloud Platform (GCP).

> As you follow the tutorials in this tutorial, you will use Terraform to
> provision, update, and destroy a simple set of infrastructure using the sample
> configuration provided. The sample configuration provisions a network and a
> Linux virtual machine. You will also learn about remote backends, input and
> output variables, and how to configure resource dependencies. These are the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In these tutorials, you will use Terraform to
provision, update, and destroy a simple set of infrastructure using the sample
configuration provided. The sample configuration provisions a network and a
Linux virtual machine. You will also learn about remote backends, input and
output variables, and how to configure resource dependencies. These are the
```

building blocks for more complex configurations.

**Warning:** While everything provisioned in this tutorial should fall within
  GCP's free tier, if you provision resources outside of the free tier, you may
  be charged. We are not responsible for any charges you may incur.

### Google Cloud Shell

This tutorial uses Google Cloud Shell to give you an environment preconfigured
with Terraform. You can execute commands at the command prompt, and edit the
files in the editor window.

If you prefer to follow this tutorial on your local machine, you can follow

> [this collection on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the [Google Cloud collection on
```

learn.hashicorp.com](https://learn.hashicorp.com/collections/terraform/gcp-get-started).

## Prerequisites

### Terraform

Terraform is already installed in your Cloud Shell environment. You can verify
this with the `terraform version`.

```bash
terraform version
```

**Note:** When you run the previous command, Terraform may print a warning that
  there is a newer version of Terraform available. This tutorial has been tested
  with the version of Terraform installed in your Cloud Shell environment, so
  you can continue to use it for the rest of the tutorial.

### Create a GCP Project

In addition to a GCP account, you will need to use a **GCP Project** to follow
this guide.

In order to keep the resources you will create in this tutorial separate from
your other resources, we recommend that you create a new project to use
throughout the tutorial.

After you have created the project, select it below.

<walkthrough-project-billing-setup></walkthrough-project-billing-setup>

Selecting the project here will set the project ID in future steps, so be sure

> to select a project before moving on!

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Selecting the project here will set the project ID in future steps, so 
select a project before moving on!
```

#### Authentication

When you are using Google Cloud Shell, the shell is already configured with
access to your GCP credentials, so you will not need to do anything extra to
authenticate and start provisioning resources. When using Terraform from another
environment, you will need to configure authentication. You can read about
credentials in the [GCP provider
documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/provider_reference#authentication).

## Build Infrastructure

The set of files used to describe infrastructure in Terraform is known as a

> Terraform _configuration_. You will now write your first configuration to create
> a network.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform _configuration_. Next, you will write your first configuration to create a network.

```

Each Terraform configuration must be in its own working directory. Your Cloud
Shell environment includes a directory called `tutorial` that will store the
configuration you will use for this tutorial.

Terraform loads all files ending in `.tf` or `.tf.json` in the working
directory.

> Inside of the `tutorial` directory you will find a file named <walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="terraform-getting-started-gcp-cloud-shell/tutorial/main.tf">main.tf</walkthrough-editor-open-file>.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the `tutorial` directory you will find a file named <walkthrough-editor-open-file filePath="terraform-getting-started-gcp-cloud-shell/tutorial/main.tf">main.tf</walkthrough-editor-open-file>.
```

Open `main.tf` in the Cloud Shell editor, and paste in the configuration below.

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    google = {
      source  = "hashicorp/google"
      version = "3.73.0"
    }
  }

  required_version = ">= 0.15.0"
}

provider "google" {
  project = "{{project-id}}"
  region  = "us-central1"
  zone    = "us-central1-c"
}

> module "project_services" {

Reviewer 3: is there a reason why you chose to use this module? it might be kinda advanced for a getting started guide.

our gcp getting started guide uses:

```
resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
  name = "terraform-network"
}
```

Author: The [GCP getting started tutorial](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/google-cloud-platform-build?in=terraform/gcp-get-started#set-up-gcp) has the user set up the services manually in the console before starting the tutorial. This version used to use the `google_project_services` resource so the user didn't have to switch context out of the cloud shell, but that resource has been deprecated. The [upgrade docs](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/google/latest/docs/guides/version_3_upgrade#google_project_services-has-been-removed-from-the-provider) recommends using the module.

  source  = "terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google//modules/project_services"
  version = "3.3.0"

  project_id = "{{project-id}}"

  activate_apis = [
    "compute.googleapis.com",
    "oslogin.googleapis.com"
  ]

  disable_services_on_destroy = false
  disable_dependent_services  = false
}
```

This is a complete configuration that Terraform can apply. In the following
sections you will review each block of the configuration in more detail.

> Cloud Shell automatically set the `project` and `project_id` attributes to the one you selected

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Cloud Shell automatically sets the `project_id` attribute to the one you selected
```

> in the previous step. You can review a list of your projects in the [cloud

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Cloud Shell automatically set the `project` and `project_id` attributes to the one you selected
in the previous step. You can review a list of your projects in the [cloud
```

resource manager](https://console.cloud.google.com/cloud-resource-manager)

### Terraform Block

The `terraform {}` block contains Terraform settings, including the required
providers Terraform will use to provision your infrastructure. For each
provider, the `source` attribute defines an optional hostname, a namespace, and
the provider type. Terraform installs providers from the [Terraform
Registry](https://registry.terraform.io/) by default. In this example
configuration, the `google` provider's source is defined as `hashicorp/google`,
which is shorthand for `registry.terraform.io/hashicorp/google`.

You can also define a version constraint for each provider in the
`required_providers` block. The `version` attribute is optional, but we

> recommend using it to enforce the provider version. Without it, Terraform will

Reviewer 2: Do we usually call out that the we is HashiCorp? `HashiCorp recommends... `

always use the latest version of the provider, which may introduce breaking
changes.

To learn more, reference the [provider source
documentation](https://www.terraform.io/docs/language/providers/requirements.html).

### Providers

The `provider` block configures the specified provider, in this case `google`. A
provider is a plugin that Terraform uses to create and manage your resources.
You can define multiple provider blocks in a Terraform configuration to manage
resources from different providers.

### Project Services Module

> In this tutorial, you will be using the Google Compute Engine service to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will use the Google Compute Engine service to
```

provision your network and instance. You also need to enable the OS Login
service for authentication. You must enable these services for your project
before you can use them. This example configuration uses a module to manage your
project services. You can learn more about how this module works from the
[module
documentation](https://registry.terraform.io/modules/terraform-google-modules/project-factory/google/3.3.0/submodules/project_services).

The `project_services` module will enable the listed services for your project.

### Initialize the directory

When you create a new configuration — or check out an existing configuration
from version control — you need to initialize the directory with `terraform
init`. This step downloads the providers defined in the configuration.

Initialize the directory.

```bash
terraform init
```

> Terraform will print output similar to the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform returns output similar to the following.
```

commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.
```

Terraform downloads the `google` provider and installs it in a hidden
subdirectory of your current working directory, named `.terraform`. The
`terraform init` command prints the provider version Terraform installed.
Terraform also creates a lock file named `.terraform.lock.hcl`, which specifies
the exact provider versions used to ensure that every Terraform run is
consistent. This also allows you to control when you want to upgrade the
providers used in your configuration.

### Format and validate the configuration

> We recommend using consistent formatting in all of your configuration files. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You should use consistent formatting in all of your Terraform configuration files. The
```

subdirectory of your current working directory, named `.terraform`. The
`terraform init` command prints the provider version Terraform installed.
Terraform also creates a lock file named `.terraform.lock.hcl`, which specifies
the exact provider versions used to ensure that every Terraform run is
consistent. This also allows you to control when you want to upgrade the
providers used in your configuration.

### Format and validate the configuration

We recommend using consistent formatting in all of your configuration files. The
`terraform fmt` command automatically updates configurations in the current
directory for readability and consistency.

Format your configuration. Terraform will print out the names of the files it
modified, if any. In this case, your configuration file was already formatted
correctly, so Terraform won't return any file names.

```bash
terraform fmt
```

You can also make sure your configuration is syntactically valid and internally
consistent by using the `terraform validate` command.

Validate your configuration. The example configuration provided above is valid,
so Terraform will return a success message.

```bash
terraform validate
```

> ```raw

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Terraform will confirm that the configuration is valid. 

```raw
```

  + resource "google_project_service" "project_services" {
      + disable_dependent_services = false
      + disable_on_destroy         = false
      + id                         = (known after apply)
      + project                    = "rln-gcp-test-01"
      + service                    = "oslogin.googleapis.com"
    }

Plan: 2 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value:
```

Respond with a `yes` to have Terraform enable these services.

```raw
  Enter a value: yes

module.project_services.google_project_service.project_services[0]: Creating...
module.project_services.google_project_service.project_services[1]: Creating...
module.project_services.google_project_service.project_services[1]: Creation complete after 3s [id=rln-gcp-test-01/oslogin.googleapis.com]
module.project_services.google_project_service.project_services[0]: Creation complete after 3s [id=rln-gcp-test-01/compute.googleapis.com]

Apply complete! Resources: 2 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

> ## Create infrastructure

Reviewer 4: Should this be combined with the previous section so that students only need to do the apply once?

Author: It can take a few seconds to enable the project_services, and so I sometimes get an error when trying to apply both the project_services and the network at the same time. Splitting the applies up works around the issue.

commands will detect it and remind you to do so if necessary.
```

Terraform downloads the `google` provider and installs it in a hidden
subdirectory of your current working directory, named `.terraform`. The
`terraform init` command prints the provider version Terraform installed.
Terraform also creates a lock file named `.terraform.lock.hcl`, which specifies
the exact provider versions used to ensure that every Terraform run is
consistent. This also allows you to control when you want to upgrade the
providers used in your configuration.

### Format and validate the configuration

We recommend using consistent formatting in all of your configuration files. The
`terraform fmt` command automatically updates configurations in the current
directory for readability and consistency.

Format your configuration. Terraform will print out the names of the files it
modified, if any. In this case, your configuration file was already formatted

> correctly, so Terraform won't return any file names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
correctly, so Terraform will not return any file names.
```

```bash
terraform fmt
```

You can also make sure your configuration is syntactically valid and internally
consistent by using the `terraform validate` command.

Validate your configuration. The example configuration provided above is valid,
so Terraform will return a success message.

```bash
terraform validate
```

Terraform will confirm that the configuration is valid. 

```raw
Success! The configuration is valid.
```

### Apply Configuration

Apply the configuration now with the `terraform apply` command. Terraform will
print output similar to what is shown below.

**Note:** Google Cloud Shell may prompt you to authorize this action before you
  can continue with the tutorial. Do so now.

```bash
terraform apply
```

> Terraform will print output similar to what is shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform returns output similar to to the output below.
```

Apply complete! Resources: 2 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

## Create infrastructure

Now create your first infrastructure, a Virtual Private Cloud (VPC) network that
will contain the rest of the infrastructure for this tutorial. Add the following
to `main.tf`.

```hcl
resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
  name = "terraform-network"
}
```

Use `resource` blocks to define components of your infrastructure. A
resource might be a physical component such as a server, or it can be a logical
resource such as a Heroku application.

Resource blocks have two strings before the block: the resource type and the
resource name. In this example, the resource type is `google_compute_network` and the name is `vpc_network`. The prefix of the type maps to the name of the provider. In the
example configuration, Terraform manages the `google_compute_network` resource with the
`google` provider. Together, the resource type and resource name form a unique ID
for the resource. For example, the ID for your network is
`google_compute_network.vpc_network`.

> Resource blocks contain arguments which you use to configure the resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Resource blocks contain arguments to configure the resource.
```

module.project_services.google_project_service.project_services[0]: Refreshing state... [id=rln-gcp-test-01/compute.googleapis.com]

Terraform used the selected providers to generate the following execution plan. Resource actions are indicated with the
following symbols:
  + create

Terraform will perform the following actions:

  # google_compute_network.vpc_network will be created
  + resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network" {
      + auto_create_subnetworks         = true
      + delete_default_routes_on_create = false
      + gateway_ipv4                    = (known after apply)
      + id                              = (known after apply)
      + mtu                             = (known after apply)
      + name                            = "terraform-network"
      + project                         = (known after apply)
      + routing_mode                    = (known after apply)
      + self_link                       = (known after apply)
    }

Plan: 1 to add, 0 to change, 0 to destroy.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value:
```

> Terraform will indicate what infrastructure changes it plans to make, and prompt

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform returns the planned infrastructure changes, and prompts
```

has a `+` next to `resource "google_compute_network" "vpc_network"`, meaning
that Terraform will create this resource. Beneath that, it shows the attributes
that will be set. When the value displayed is `(known after apply)`, it means
that the value will not be known until the resource is created.

Terraform will now pause and wait for approval before proceeding. If anything in
the plan seems incorrect or dangerous, it is safe to abort here with no changes
made to your infrastructure.

In this case the plan looks acceptable, so type `yes` at the confirmation prompt
to proceed. It may take a few minutes for Terraform to provision the network.

```raw
  Enter a value: yes

google_compute_network.vpc_network: Creating...
google_compute_network.vpc_network: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
google_compute_network.vpc_network: Still creating... [20s elapsed]
google_compute_network.vpc_network: Still creating... [30s elapsed]
google_compute_network.vpc_network: Still creating... [40s elapsed]
google_compute_network.vpc_network: Creation complete after 42s [id=projects/rln-gcp-test-01/global/networks/terraform-network]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

> You have now created infrastructure using Terraform! Visit the GCP console to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You created GCP infrastructure using Terraform! Visit the GCP console to
```

see the network you provisioned. Make sure you are looking at the same
region and project that you configured in the provider configuration.

### Inspect State

When you applied your configuration, Terraform wrote data into a file called
`terraform.tfstate`. Terraform stores the IDs and properties of the resources it
manages in this file, so that it can update or destroy those resources going
forward.

> The Terraform state file is the only way Terraform can track which resources it
> manages, and often contains sensitive information, so you must store your state
> file securely and distribute it only to trusted team members who need to manage

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform tracks resources with the Terraform state file. The state file often contains sensitive information, so you must store your state
file securely and distribute it only to trusted team members who need to manage
```

    access_config {
    }
  }

  allow_stopping_for_update = true
}
```

> **Note:** The order in which resources are defined in your configuration files

Reviewer 2: Could we shorten this to say that Terraform managed dependencies for you?

```

Once again, answer `yes` to the confirmation prompt.

```raw
  Enter a value: yes

google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creating...
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creation complete after 19s [id=projects/rln-gcp-test-01/zones/us-central1-c/instances/terraform-instance]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

This is a fairly straightforward change — you added a `google_compute_instance`
resource named `vm_instance` to the configuration, and Terraform created the
resource in GCP.

### Modify configuration

In addition to creating resources, Terraform can also make changes to those
resources.

Add a `tags` argument to your `vm_instance` resource block.

**Tip:** The below snippet is formatted as a diff to give you context about what
in your configuration should change. Add the tags attribute as shown below
(exclude the leading `+` sign).

```diff
 resource "google_compute_instance" "vm_instance" {
   name         = "terraform-instance"
   machine_type = "f1-micro"
+  tags         = ["web", "dev"]
# ...
 }
```

Run `terraform apply` again.

```bash
terraform apply
```

> ```raw

Reviewer 4: Put a line of text between code blocks.

  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value:
```

Once again, answer `yes` to the confirmation prompt.

```raw
  Enter a value: yes

google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creating...
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creation complete after 19s [id=projects/rln-gcp-test-01/zones/us-central1-c/instances/terraform-instance]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

With this change you added a `google_compute_instance`
resource named `vm_instance` to the configuration, and Terraform created the
resource in GCP.

### Modify configuration

In addition to creating resources, Terraform can also make changes to those
resources.

Add a `tags` argument to your `vm_instance` resource block.

**Tip:** The below snippet is formatted as a diff to give you context about what
in your configuration should change. Add the tags attribute as shown below
(exclude the leading `+` sign).

> ```diff

Reviewer: is there a hideclipboard option for this?

Author: No, not for cloud shell.

  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.

  Enter a value:
```

Once again, answer `yes` to the confirmation prompt.

```raw
  Enter a value: yes

google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creating...
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Still creating... [10s elapsed]
google_compute_instance.vm_instance: Creation complete after 19s [id=projects/rln-gcp-test-01/zones/us-central1-c/instances/terraform-instance]

Apply complete! Resources: 1 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
```

> This is a fairly straightforward change — you added a `google_compute_instance`
> resource named `vm_instance` to the configuration, and Terraform created the
> resource in GCP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With this change you added a `google_compute_instance`
resource named `vm_instance` to the configuration, and Terraform created the
resource in GCP.
```

your instance.

### Introduce destructive changes

A destructive change is a change that requires the provider to replace the
existing resource rather than updating it. This usually happens because the
cloud provider does not support updating the resource in the way described by
your configuration.

Changing the disk image of your instance is one example of a destructive change.
Edit the `boot_disk` block inside the `vm_instance` resource in your
configuration file to change the image parameter as follows.

**Tip:** The below snippet is formatted as a diff to give you context about what
  in your configuration should change. Replace the old value (indicated with a `-`) with
  the new value (indicated with a `+`).

```diff hideClipboard
   boot_disk {
     initialize_params {
-      image = "debian-cloud/debian-9"
+      image = "cos-cloud/cos-stable"
     }
   }
```

This modification changes the boot disk from a Debian 9 image to Google's
Container-Optimized OS.

Now run `terraform apply` again. Terraform will replace the instance because
Google Cloud Platform does not support replacing the boot disk image on a
running instance.

```bash
terraform apply
```

> Terraform will print output similar to the following.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Terraform will print output similar to the following:
```

instance and then created a new one in its place. You can use `terraform show`
again to see the new values associated with this instance.

> ## Destroy Infrastructure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Destroy infrastructure
```

```

As with `terraform apply`, Terraform determines the order in which resources
must be destroyed. GCP will not destroy a VPC network if there are other
resources still in it, so Terraform waits until the instance is destroyed first.
When performing operations, Terraform creates a dependency graph to determine
the correct order of operations. In more complicated cases with multiple
resources, Terraform will perform operations in parallel when it's safe to do
so.

## Define Input Variables

You now have enough Terraform knowledge to create useful configurations, but the
examples so far have used hard-coded values. Terraform configurations can
include variables to make your configuration more dynamic and flexible.

Edit the file called `variables.tf` to add the following variable definitions.

```hcl
variable "project" { }

variable "region" {
  default = "us-central1"
}

variable "zone" {
  default = "us-central1-c"
}
```

**Tip:** Terraform loads all files ending in `.tf` in the working directory, so
  you can name your configuration files however you choose. We recommend
  defining variables in their own file to make your configuration easier to
  organize and understand.

> This file defines four variables within your Terraform configuration. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This file defines three variables within your Terraform configuration. The
```

> `project` and `credentials_file` variables have an empty block: `{ }`. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`project` variable has an empty block: `{ }`. The
```

```

As before, respond to the confirmation prompt with a `yes`.

Since the region and zone input variables are configured with defaults, you do
not need to set them. The values you set in your variables file match the
original configuration, so Terraform does not need to make any changes to your
infrastructure.

Terraform supports many ways to use and set variables. To learn more, follow our
in-depth tutorial, [Customize Terraform Configuration with
Variables](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/variables?in=terraform/configuration-language).

## Query Data with Output Variables

In the previous section, you used input variables to parameterize your Terraform
configuration. In this section, you will use output values to organize data to
be easily queried and displayed to the Terraform user.

When building complex infrastructure, Terraform stores hundreds or thousands of
attribute values for all your resources. As a user of Terraform, you may only
be interested in a few values of importance. Outputs designate which data to
display. This data is outputted when `apply` is called, and can be queried
using the `terraform output` command.

### Define Outputs

> Define an output for the IP address of the instance that Terraform provisions. Create
> a file called `outputs.tf` with the following contents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Define an output for the IP address of the instance that Terraform provisions. Add the following configuration to the `outputs.tf` file.
```

instance and then created a new one in its place. You can use `terraform show`
again to see the new values associated with this instance.

## Destroy Infrastructure

> You have created and modified infrastructure using Terraform. You will now learn
> how to destroy your Terraform-managed infrastructure.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have created and modified infrastructure using Terraform. You will now destroy your Terraform-managed infrastructure.

```

Once you no longer need infrastructure, you might want to destroy it to reduce
your security exposure and costs. For example, you may remove a production
environment from service, or manage short-lived environments like build or
testing systems. In addition to building and modifying infrastructure, Terraform
can destroy or recreate the resources it manages.

### Destroy

The `terraform destroy` command terminates resources managed by your Terraform

> project. This command is the inverse of `terraform apply` in that it terminates
> all the resources specified in your Terraform state. It does _not_ destroy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
project. This command terminates
all the resources specified in your Terraform state. It does _not_ destroy
```
